# Rare-Earth-Filthy-Lucre-Price-Prediction-Using-Machine-Learning

My final year project has it all from Frontend with HTML, CSS, WordPress, Bootstrap, and Backend in Python. To this day, abstention rates continue to fluctuate, largely due to abnormal demand and supply. This is why price prediction will turn out by allowing everyone to contain their demand and requirements based on trending prices and future upcoming prices. In literature, several algorithms and datasets based on previous prices will be able to achieve accuracy. Machine learning technology is proposed as a new technical infrastructure for several types of merchants and retailers because it allows us the stress less decision making in orders of raw materials. Predicting one-day-ahead movement in rare earth metal prices, while indicators from other financial and precious metal markets are effective in predicting five-years-ahead price movements. Gemstones like diamonds are always in demand because of their value in the investment market. This makes it very important for diamond dealers to predict its prices. The proposed platform provides a framework that can be implemented to achieve a projected price without involving any physical polling stations. We have used Streamlit to build this project, “Rare-Earth Filthy Lucre Prediction Using Machine Learning”.
Introduction
Precious metals gained considerable importance after the financial crisis of 2008. With the increasing role of risk management in the financial markets, investors have started to diversify their risk away using different investment tools. Therefore, precious metals become an alternative to financial derivatives. While gold has been considered an investment tool historically, it has also gained more importance and has been held as a hedging instrument for the last two decades. Recently, together with gold, investors have started to extend their portfolio holding silver, platinum, and palladium. Silver and platinum have been used in the jewelry sector increasing the demand for them. Prices of precious metals fluctuate due to economic and political conditions and social environment. Investors assume precious metals, especially gold, as a hedging instrument. In the consistent economic periods, prices of precious metals tend to decrease. On the contrary, when economic conditions deteriorate, price of the precious metals tends to increase. Fluctuations in precious metal prices can arise from domestic factors as well as international movements in the world markets. As the markets become more integrated and foreign investors start to monitor the financial markets of emerging economies, price levels become more sensitive to international factors. Especially with the rapidly expanding demand of the emerging countries for raw materials, world metal markets witnessed increasing demand for metals.
Execution Steps:
To run only the ML app which is named as app.py you need to start it in a Python environment like VS Code. Below steps you need to start a local host using Xamp Server. Unzip the file and paste it to the htdocs and start the Apache server.
Step 1: Save the project Folder in the Computer's Memory.
Step 2: Run the command prompt with the file Directory Use the command "streamlit run app.py" in the command prompt. (The system must contain streamlit.py modules installed).
Step 3: Use any IDE (preferred VS Studio Code) to run the frontend packages. (The system must contain HTML, and CSS modules installed).
Step 4: Then the Landing page will pop up.
Step 5: To see the application Go to services.
Screenshots
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conclusion
In this study, an ANN model using the RapidMiner program is implemented to determine the predictability of gold prices, which is one of the important investment tools in recent years, as well as silver, palladium, and platinum prices. Daily data on gold, silver, palladium, and platinum prices and 15 macroeconomic variables from January 2010 to April 2023 are used in the study. Results show that gold prices and palladium prices can be forecasted significantly and efficiently using ANN. But forecast results for silver and platinum variables using this method give us less efficient results. As a general evaluation, we can say that predictions made using the ANN method can be useful for predicting the prices of precious metals. Future works about the same variables can be extended by using a wider range of data comparing time series analysis results or other machine learning algorithm analysis results.
